>> Brian Holt: Now I really
wish I could stop here.
[LAUGH] This just is getting worse.
But you need to know because
eventually you're gonna be looking
at a code that's terrible, and
you're gonna be wondering what's going on.
And I want you, one,
understand what's going, and two,
I want you to shame whoever did it.
It's a joke, don't shame people,
but also, don't do yourself.
That's ultimately,
that's really what I want you to do.
Because if you and
I are working the same code base,
I'm gonna be very upset with you.
[LAUGH] So don't use these.
Don't use these, don't use these.
I'm gonna show you what they do and
how, but don't use them.
We were talking about, sometimes there is
sledgehammers, these are wrecking balls.
These are just way too powerful and
you are in a different dimension
when you start using these and
you really just stop and ask yourself,
how did I get here,
if you end up with using these.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're going to style by ID.
We were talking earlier about IDs and
how I don't think they're
necessarily a good idea.
Styling by ID is yet a worse idea.
>> Brian Holt: So I talked about how you
have ones for tags, you have tens for
classes, and
now you have hundreds for IDs.
So one ID will overpower 10 classes.
Actually 255,
if we're gonna be truly honest.
It will overpower 200 classes.
So don't.
So the way you select for an ID is use
the pound, and so this site brand, and
you can see here,
this is a ridiculous selector.
It has one tag, and
it has three different classes and
it's still red because it's using an ID.
Right, this would be like 100,
and this would be 31.
>> Brian Holt: By the way,
I don't think I showed you this yet,
this is how you do comments in CSS.
>> Brian Holt: It's actually any,
you just do a.
>> Brian Holt: /* */ anything between
this,
>> Brian Holt: Is a comment,
and it can be on a totally different line,
so it can be all the way down there.
You don't have to put the stars here.
It's just kind of a convention
to make it kind of easy for
your eyes to vertically align there.
I don't know, it looks nice I suppose.
>> Brian Holt: Questions?
>> Brian Holt: So don't ever stop at ID.
Ask questions if anyone tries to submit
code to your code base that does.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
just don't, it's a bad idea.
>> Brian Holt: So
ID selectors are just way too powerful.
It's just not a good idea.
>> Brian Holt: So do you wanna wreck
the wrecking ball is the question.
So there's one that's even worse than
styling by ID, and it's called important.
[LAUGH] I wish I had never
seen these before, but
I saw them all the time and
in a one code base I used to work in.
Okay, so I have site-brand-2 here, right?
Let's see if I make this even less.
Let's just make this in h1.
>> Brian Holt: So
this has nothing in it, right?
This has one specificity.
This has 100 specificity.
And I have here, Brand of my Website,
what color is this gonna be?
>> Brian Holt: Green, right?
Because here important overrides even, so
this is like the thousands place, right?
This will override IDs,
which is just a giant problem.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Is that in every
browser too?
>> Brian Holt: Mm-hm, yeah no it's quite
old, so it's been around for some time.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Was it necessary
where you worked and if so why?
>> Brian Holt: Was it necessary?
Absolutely not, no way.
[LAUGH] It's lazy developers.
So let me explain to you how
these problems like unravel.
Someone makes a CSS class and
they write something and they select it.
And then sometime, three months later,
someone has to go over and
design decided to change
something from red to green.
And they don't want to go figure out
where it was originally written, so
they just write a new CSS class and
they make it more specific.
So they had two classes,
then later someone adds three classes,
someone adds four classes,
someone adds four classes and a tag.
Someone is like, nope screw it,
I'm just gonna do an ID, and
then throw an ID on it.
And so it's just like this rats nest and
gets more and more tangled and
someone's like it's important now.
[LAUGH] So it's just this ridiculousness
and if you ever try to like unravel it and
make the code look better,
because at that point your codes
impossible to understand where's
what's coming from where.
Yeah, it's impossible,
it's just impossible to deal with.
So no, it wasn't necessary at all.
Does that answer your question?
>> Speaker 2: Mm-hm.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So for all these IDs and
important, the cascade still applies?
That if you have two importants on
something,
>> Brian Holt: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: The bottom one or
two IDs on something, the bottom one, or
the one closest will override.
>> Brian Holt: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: There
is a way to do two importants,
I forgot what it is.
>> Brian Holt: Anyway,
you can get into some weird stuff, yes.
>> Brian Holt: Remember how some
things can only have one ID.
So let's just get rid of that for
a second.
Let's say I wanted to make this even more.
We'll just get rid of that for a second.
>> Brian Holt: What you
could do is you can do.
There's nothing stopping you
from repeating yourself.
So you can say site-brand-2,
and then up here I can say site-brand-2.
So you can actually repeat yourself.
But now it's become more specific, right?
Or you can get even like more weird and
you can actually combine with
the class and say nav-head-2.
>> Brian Holt: So now it's more specific
cuz it has both a class and ID, right?
So you can see this is kind of
a game you can play but you really,
really don't want to.
If you combine an ID
selector with class or
with anything else ever,
just burn the code base to the ground.
Just delete it and quit your job.
No, I'm just kidding.
Yeah you have serious problems when
you're combining IDs with anything else.
That's when you know stuff
has seriously hit the fan.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now that I've shown you all the stuff,
I hope you never see it again.
I bless you that you never have
to see these things again.
Any questions?
>> Brian Holt: Please.
>> Speaker 3: Are there any add-ons, or
I guess you'd call them plugins that
tracks where stuff is coming from?
So that developers can find
where the end of the string is?
>> Brian Holt: The Dev tools are actually
really quite good at pointing to where
things came from, so this is actually not
gonna be super useful, maybe it will be.
Let's take a look at my header here for
the website.
So if I Inspect Element, which is gonna
put me back in my developer tools.
So you can see here that I have a nav bar.
The nav bar class,
it's pointing at this coming from in line.
But that's how my website was built.
If I click on it,
it'll actually take me to the style sheet,
where I was actually defined.
So you don't actually really
even need any additional tools.
Your developer tools are actually
quicker to do it now.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, it's more
confusing why there would be lazy
developers in the first place if
they can't find where it starts.
>> Brian Holt: Yes,
I like where your head's at.
[LAUGH] Absolutely,
the first thing I would say is developer
tools haven't always been this good.
That's maybe the past three to four years,
they've gotten really, really good.
And even maybe the past two years
when they've gotten phenomenal.
Specifically, Chrome and Firefox have
just taken huge bounds, it's really,
really great developer tools.
I mean, back in the day when we
were using old Firebug which
is what Firefox dev tools used to be,
it didn't really tell you
some of things like this.
And then beyond that,
people are still just lazy.
[LAUGH] A lot of people don't invest
the time to learn the developer tools and
learn their tooling really, really well.
I would bet you there's some people that
don't even know that you can do that, and
you could click through to see that.
So it is worth the time to
invest into your tools and
to learn how your browser works.
Learn how to do your developer tools.
In fact, there's a great Frontend Masters
course by Jon Kuperman on
the Chrome developer tools.
So that's worth doing as well.
>> Brian Holt: But I don't know,
I don't know why people do that.
[LAUGH] I'd like to say that I've never
done it, but I've definitely done it.
I mean, it's one of those things that I
was working at a place that, obviously,
no one cared.
Because everyone else was doing it.
And it was like, I don't have time
to clean up everyone else's mess, so
I'm just gonna pile onto it.
>> Brian Holt: It's like if
you're in a crowd of people and
they won't stop a crime going on.
Like there's somebody will
to blame anyone else, and
everyone does that to everyone else.
And there's some name for that phenomenon
that I can't remember what it is.
The fusion of responsibility,
that's what it is.
People are lazy.
People, I am lazy, that's true.